All right, this thing is going.
What we will do is just talk a little bit and then test to see if it's picking up the office to be.
Why don't we just say that we're in the... All right.
You want me to talk?
Please, yes.
Well, we're now in Warren House on the second floor.
We're about to talk about the Inman Diary.
Okay, and the date is...
This is the 23rd, 23 July.
I want to see if I can pick up my movie.
So 23 July, 1885.
So let's check this out.
We're going to talk about Mr. Inman first.
All right.
This guy, generally, one of the observations I've had is how much work that you've done.
I mean, you certainly were faced with a massive broad data.
Yes.
I had no idea really what I was getting into.
I knew that it was an enormous diary when David Donald, who's a professor of history at Harvard, went through it at the request of the Harvard University Press and the trustees of the Indian estate.
He sampled a great deal of it and then wrote a report, and I believe he might have known how large it was, but he did not actually see the bulk of it.
After I agreed to take this on, my secretary, Elizabeth Smith, and I went down— Henry, can you tell me when this was?
This was in 1977, when we first went.
It really wasn't until 1978 that I really began to do serious work on it.
It was in the fall, I believe, of 77.
And we went down to the Boston Safe Deposit Company, and they hauled out these old, worn trunks and suitcases, just full of stocked with these diaries.
The originals and typescript.
155 volumes.
155 volumes of the original, and then, of course, an additional 155 volumes of the typescript.
Did you work with typescript or with the originals?
With the typescript, but always checking the original, we thought there were some ambiguities.
His writing was miserable, and since he often wrote, I don't think he wrote in the dark, although he stayed a lot of the time in the dark, I think he wrote always with some kind of light.
But there were times when his writing seemed fairly lucid, but most of the time it was practically illegible.
And he had increasingly difficulty finding people who would be able to make these transcriptions.
His wife was invaluable, of course.
And there were other secretaries that he had who he hired to do this.
Of course, he would then go over the typescript, after they had done it, and corrected them.
And there might be three or four different versions, and finally he would settle on the typescript that he wanted.
There are in a sense variants, but most of it came down pretty much to the final diary and the original.
And those are now housed in the Houghton Library.
Did you have any idea what you were getting?
No.
17 million words.
Was it proposed to you as something extraordinary?
It was proposed... Or something enormous.
Something enormous, I knew that.
But once I got into it and began to look at it, then I began to see that this was absolutely enormous.
And I began to feel a little troubled about it, and particularly since, as I read the early parts of the diary,
There was something so unpleasant about Arthur Inman that I wondered what I was doing getting stuck with this character and having to go through all of this bilge, as I thought at the time, in order to extract what might be interesting to the social historian.
I had no idea of the novelistic aspects of it.
I had no notion of the man, no notion of the variety.
At what point were you hooked?
Yes.
At what point did this come to you?
I mean, did you feel that, you know, we've really got something here that is unique?
I think in about a year and a half, I began to—I was writing letters to myself and writing letters to Arthur Inman, and saying, what is this guy up to, what is he going to do?
I begin to see, I begin to see.
And then, I would say, in about a year and a half,
What he, I began to understand his intention, which he didn't understand at the beginning, but as he went on, he began to see what the diary was about.
I began to see what the diary was about.
And then I think it was that that I rather consciously began to shape it as a non-fiction novel.
Do you think he ever really focused on it?
That is a massive literary work.
I think it was his... He early discerned it.
He early saw that if he was going to have any fame at all, it was going to be in this diary.
He early determined that, above all, his whole reason for living was to publish this diary.
You know, it took me a year to outline that diary.
before I did anything.
I simply went through it and made an entry for everything.
It came to eight loose-leaf volumes, 1,300 single-spaced pages.
That's the outline.
Yeah.
But you are—would you accept the suggestion that this is as much your work as it is?
Well, I began to think of it as my surrogate novel.
I mean, as a person who had always thought of writing a novel and who never had, but finding all the material there, or the analogy that I used in the introduction of a great rock and a monument, and I, with his assistance, discerned the shape of what he wanted it to be, a long Russian novel,
with people entering in and disappearing and coming in again.
Or like Dos Passos, Manhattan Transfer, a book that he read in the 1920s and began to see that he was doing what Dos Passos was doing.
So that there was a conscious literary sense.
He was very critical of most writers and most novelists, certainly the so-called classics, as he called them.
But he loved history.
And he began to see, he did talk about characters, you see.
He did talk about plot.
To hire tellers.
That's right.
Have you ever heard of such a thing?
No.
I mean, have you heard of anything?
No, no.
To hire people to come and tell the stories of their lives.
But you might say, if you wanted to, I've never developed the literary
spin-offs, implications, ramifications of this, any more than I have the psychoanalytical.
Well, it's like a director of hiring a model, actually.
Yes.
Or an informant.
When did you discern that you were a character?
Ah.
After I finished the diary.
and had listed all these directives to me.
I began to think, well, I'm in a kind of special category here.
I began to feel that I had been in some somehow rapport with him.
Then it came to going through and finding all these enormous amounts of the sections of the diary that I had already decided must go in.
I would go through and say,
must this must be in probably could be you see as i went through the outline starring no sections that had to be in it then i came the end in in 1950 51 there were then these enormous diaries how could i possibly get them in it was then that it developed the sort of the henry james trick of foreshortening and i thought of the device with a letter uh
that came from one of the main characters, Edna, the earth woman you may have encountered here already, who left in the 1937.
When she saw the article about me and the project in the Harvard Magazine, she was living in Fort Lauderdale at that time, she wrote.
Then, in replying to her, I thought, what a device.
I will use a series of letters to Edna.
in which I, the editor, who has been more or less holding back in my leads and notes, being rather detached.
But already you can see, as you go through the head notes, sometimes more involvement on my part, more irritation, more sarcasm, or something of this kind.
And then finally, in part six,
I give up impartiality.
I simply write what I think.
And use that in those letters to her to telescope what happened in the last ten years of his life and at the same time summarize and answer questions that have been building up.
So it's the climactic chapter which ends the narrative, which resolves the action, which brings together
uh everything that's happened before and which makes it a novel and which tends to make it of course it's a very special kind of a novel because arthur you know never pretends to know what goes on inside the minds of his characters he thinks that's impossible he can't doesn't understand himself he said how can anybody understand what what other people are doing you only look you only report you only describe
Do I really want to commit so much of my life?"
Exactly.
A number of writers I've interviewed over the years, Tony Thompson comes to mind, the late Tony Thompson said, you know, deciding which book you're going to write, this is a very, very serious decision.
He said, it's like deciding who your mistress is going to be for four or five years.
I said, this is great.
You know, is this the person I want to wake up with every morning?
Am I going to be happy?
I mean, this was his metaphor.
And I suspect that a book is the same type of... Well, you're involved a lot of time.
I went into it for money at the beginning.
It's a noble... Yeah, it was a job, like I take on.
I had done a certain amount of editing.
I loved diaries.
It was a period of my life.
So it was a way of re-seeing my own life through somebody else's eyes.
Did you?
Yes.
In many ways because of the incidents that he talks about that I remember.
Books, authors, events brought back with my own memories.
Did you find yourself agreeing with him or disagreeing with him?
Oh, disagreeing with him most of the time.
Okay.
So, to some extent, I didn't agree with him, of course.
How could I agree with... Well, let me say, let me qualify that.
Yes, there were certain times when I would have agreed with him.
For instance?
His sympathy with the Sandinista Sandino in Nicaragua.
Totally unexpected.
It is totally unexpected.
um his feeling that uh that is not in character that doesn't seem to be in character and yet it does in a way because he's always in the side of the underdog while he while he for example while he was pro-fascist in spain he sympathized with the loyalists too you see uh he uh any any of the underdog it's partly he would say from the southern background his feeling of being part of the defeated south
He's feeling that the Lindbergh kidnapper of the Lindbergh baby didn't get a fair trial.
Yes.
Things like that.
But there were not many, not many.
Sometimes his opinions of books were shrewd.
Mostly not.
But there were people that he admired, and rightly so, you see.
So I had to do that.
How about liking him?
Would you find yourself liking him?
I began to be, I hated him, let me put it that way.
I found him absolutely disgusting and revolving.
But then, you begin to take in this whole world that he lived in, and all of his associates, and he keeps explaining, try to understand me, to the reader.
You know, you think that, so here I am.
To the editor.
To the editor, too.
To the readers and to the editors.
I mean, you are his country.
That's true.
But also unborn readers who might, if his diary makes it, will understand him so they won't hate him too much.
So it's more to the readers than it is to me.
He wants his readers to understand.
Why does he like little girls?
Why does he, you know, all these things.
Why that he complains an awful lot in the diary.
The editor, cut that stuff out.
I did cut a lot of it out, but enough to suggest that he was complaining a good deal.
So that I tried to live up to his directives.
But then I began to admire him to a degree of this passion, this persistence, to carry out this goal, to write this diary, and to try to keep it honest.
I admired him for not going back and changing.
He would go, he would look at his, when he was correcting his diary, he'd look back to what he was twenty years before and be disgusted, and say, well, I'm tempted to cut all this out, but the whole point of the diary would be lost if I did it.
So I'm leaving that in.
I'm impressed by the fact that he quotes the most destructive judgments against him.
So there is a decided degree of integrity in here?
There is.
There's an integrity to the diary, if not to other people.
Do you think in his mind he completed it?
He pretty well did.
I think that towards the end—and you'll see this in the last section of the book—he has, towards the end, saying, I've got to—things are happening.
He knows his world is coming down pretty soon.
I've got to finish, typewrite, get these things done, and all the rest of it.
It was left at the end hanging fire.
He wasn't becoming bored with it.
Not at all.
But he had a feeling that time was—that he wasn't going to kill himself.
And he wanted to get a substantial part of it then, you see.
So there's no clear, resolving coda.
The diary ends in nightmare.
Which is almost appropriate.
Which is, in a way, appropriate, because he lived half his life—certainly half his sleeping life—
Do you think that this guy is a psychiatrist?
Yes.
And I think that the diary itself constitutes one of the most remarkable documents.
That is, for 1919 to 1963 and through 155 volumes, as I said in my introduction, literally on the couch.
Only a tiny bit of this.
It's in the published diary.
But enough, so that if psychoanalysts wanted to go back and reconstruct the whole thing— What would they want to determine, do you think?
Well— I mean, he's dead.
He's dead.
Well, anybody, a psychiatrist— Or an intellectual exercise, what would they— Well, they would—his dreams, which are very, very fully worked out.
his various kinds of prevarications, turd diversations, his attitudes towards his mother and his father, his attitudes towards women, all his curious eccentricities.
And the self-diagnosis.
Of course, he had...
His notion, of course, there was nothing organically wrong with him.
I mean, mentally wrong.
It was only organically wrong.
All the defenses that he builds up.
But there would be... He would be, at least for some kind of diagnostician, a classic case of something.
He'd make a hell of a favor.
Well, it would be.
I mean, it could be a book, actually, just the medical side of it.
his interest in crack remedies, the whole medical side of it.
There's a little appendix at the end of the volume, it was volume two, by David Musto, who was our medical advisor, in which he makes his medical opinion of what might have been the case.
But it could be of immense interest, it seems to me, to psychiatrists.
You say that you have enjoyed the retirement diaries, and that this diary is unique.
Is it unique because of its size, because of the many years that he's put into it, or the other qualities?
No.
It is unusually large.
But I found out when I got letters from people, God knows whom, after that article in the Harvard Magazine was published, David Donnell had said in his comment, interviewed by this, quoted by this man,
who wrote about me, a cult that it was the largest diary ever written by an American.
Well, three letters came and said, I've been keeping the diary for as long as mine's much longer than this.
I'm sure.
So there are a lot of people who just write down every day.
But nobody ever wrote a diary which was intended as an apologia,
a history of his times, a man who was going to obtain fame by being completely honest, who would be public and private at the same time, who would exhort, adjure the readers, would address himself constantly to them, telling them about his most private thoughts, but not clearly written to be published.
but yet not a novel, not the kind of diary, not a journal, because this was a day-to-day thing, that it had a plot, a narrative line, all of these things.
I can't think of any diary.
You were calling it, for want of a better phrase, a nonfiction?
In one of its aspects, yes.
That phrase has been used, of course, by the way.
Of course, sure, sure.
with respect to something someone else has written in the form.
Everything is called a novel now.
You see, Thornton Wilder describes a novel—I'm just reading his journals now—as a long narrative work, large parts of which are imaginative.
Now, in that sense, it's not a novel.
Do you think any of this is imaginative?
I don't think, making the comparison to Mary Chestnut up there, I don't think that, first of all, the difference between Mary Chestnut's diary, which I adore, but which I never, even before Van Woodward came out, and I made this point in my own book, The Unwritten War, looking at that book, I said,
This cannot be a true diary.
It has the air of a writer of fiction, that it was put together subsequently.
Twenty years later.
Yes, but I didn't know that.
It was my hunch.
And that it was a better Civil War novel than any southerner ever wrote.
Now, Arthur Inman, or...
Or the George Washington Strong novel, Diary, which to me is the greatest 19th century diary.
George Templeton Strong.
That's okay.
I just want to bring it down so I can probably pull it.
Marvelous.
Great.
But that is a man writing his life every day, too.
and involving himself in history and domestic affairs and so forth.
But it was a diary that he wrote for himself.
He may have thought eventually it was going to be published, but it wasn't published for a long time, and there were no, ever, ever, he took no steps ever to have it published.
Maybe he meant it for his family, but it was a, and he undertook it simply as a kind of an outlet for himself.
So, as it was for Arthur Inman, it was, it began as a kind of outlet for him.
Well, Peeps,
I'm not pronouncing his name.
Pepys.
Pepys kept it.
Of course, he kept it, and I suppose that in some ways, Arthur's Diaries, closely to Pepys's, is that I believe every diarist secretly believes that eventually his diary is going, or her diary is going to be published.
Otherwise, why keep it?
Do you think that this diary will have implications as a window into an era, say, at Pepys's?
Yes, now this is a very good question.
Let me go back to Pepys again.
Pepys wrote it, of course, in secret code.
The idea was to withhold, because he was saying shameless things about himself, his amorous proceedings and things of that kind, and his own comments, that he didn't want to be.
Quite the reverse from Arthur, who even while he was writing the diary, was sending pieces of it out for inspection, and hoping to get it published while he lived.
Quite different.
Arthur thought of himself as being a person who was going to, he said, I'm writing this diary so people 500 years from now will know how an average American lived.
Ridiculous.
He wasn't an average American.
He lived in a special kind of hot house world.
He lived in a little black hole with opening the window up and inviting people coming to tell it, tell it about themselves.
He realized by me that he wasn't the person to do this kind of diary.
On the other hand,
Because of the fact that he did bring in so many people, and he did at least travel around Boston, you get a sense of place, and you get a variety of people who poured in.
And, of course, you only get in the published version a tiny number.
A thousand people, yes.
And they come in one after the other.
So that you get a real cross-section of Americans.
Now, you'd get a suggestion of this.
But I had to keep it down.
Otherwise, it's a good volume.
It's still a pretty large work.
There's still a pretty large work.
But it's less than what... I'm enjoying it enormously, and I think that the first thing that surprised me is that he's a good writer.
His sentences are... You haven't tampered with them, Mr. Leal.
I have... Pardon me, that's the wrong work.
But edit it.
I have edited.
Large sections, I don't.
I hardly touched, for example, the introduction of the Southern Life.
What I did was not to tamper with the sentences, but to eliminate passages sometimes, so that I would have a section, and then I would blot out two paragraphs, and start editing.
I was editing, but not tampering, not changing.
Not changing sentence structure.
I mean, I think he could have, if he had focused himself.
I pruned.
Which is an editor's function.
It was an editor's function.
I could say that I performed.
And that, of course, was the most, it was very exhausting work.
And you did kind of shuffle things around shapes, shall we say.
Not in time sequence.
No.
I follow the day by day.
There's no changing there.
But what I did do.
is if at the beginning of the introduction, which are flashbacks taken, they're all over the diary, I arrange those and give the date of the year so it's perfectly clear when those were written.
At the end, I will excerpt the things from the last ten years and give the date.
Because I will go on, then I'll just sit for me, and then I'll go on.
Yes, well, you enjoyed this enormously, didn't you?
Well, I got finally quite excited with it, you see.
And I began to be so familiar with this world.
I mean, families, people, personalities.
You get to know people intimately.
And my secretary and I, Elizabeth Smith, we would talk...
as if these people were alive.
And we'd say, well, you know what Arthur would think about this, or just think what would happen if this happened.
In other words, we became a part of that kind of world, of their associations, their tastes, their political prejudices, their secretiveness, that kind of thing.
I would like, this is kind of nuts and bolts stuff, but I think I will read some of this in the future.
Here we are.
uh the man did leave the sum of money to harvard and to ensure or to accept right to encourage the press yes because that was his whole reason for living this is why he had scrapped he had plotted to even to cheat his father and to do anything he could to get to get money so that would eventually go in when his father died he inherited a lot of money
He had been very successful in real estate business, buying houses in Boston.
In the 50s, of course, you couldn't lose on the stock market if you owned any stocks.
He lost his shirt, of course, in the 20s.
So he had a comfortable income, and she did.
The will, which I don't have a copy of, indicated that Harvard would be given first opportunity, and after Harvard
After Princeton, Yale.
After Yale, Habiford.
But he wanted the University Press.
He wanted the University Press, or if not even—not even a press even to house it, because it was not going to be published, you see.
He had microfilms made of this, and deposited them in various places.
That's really amazing.
And because he thought, of course, the atomic bomb just destroyed the whole point of the diary, because the world wasn't going to last.
He didn't work all these years, and then the bomb drops.
That's a very important section in the diary, when the bomb drops.
And then he had written to Thomas Wilson, at that time the director of the Harvard University Press,
Send him a batch of the stuff.
Wilson found it very, very interesting.
Said, obviously, they couldn't publish all of it.
But left hanging fire, what would happen?
He then killed himself.
And then the trustees reopened the question because he had indicated this in his will.
And that's how Harvard got into it.
Fascinating.
You think that it would have come to pass if he hadn't made these provisions?
I don't know.
I don't know whether Harvard would have had a chance to get it.
And it's a question whether even Harvard would have done it if it hadn't been.
Aida Donald, who's my editor at the Harvard University Press, her husband was David Henry Herbert Donald, one of the most eminent of our historians.
And she had brought back a batch of the manuscript to her house, and David had come in and was flipping through
the diary, began to be more and more fascinated by it, and then said, this is wonderful.
So then he was commissioned by the trustees and the Harvard University Press to read it, or read portions, life portions, and make a report.
He said, this is a remarkable document.
It deserves to be published.
So the man got his wish?
The man got his wish.
Did you ever see that piece in the Harvard magazine?
I was going to ask about that.
You could just get me the data.
I could probably get a copy from that.
Tune it off a bit.
I'll get there yet.
Let me just check how we're doing, too.
Mostly.
I mean, these questions were going around the edges.
I really spend most of my time getting into that.
I think that what makes the book work—I mean, how—a diary as long as this, it can be an awful bore if it was simply a sort of daily litany, if nothing were happening.
You get one glance at it, and then here's Arthur of a completely different point of view, then there's a completely different point of view, and they're sort of contradictory.
He can be very funny, he can be ridiculous, he can be despicable, he can be poignant, all depending on what side you're looking at him.
And you get a picture of him all around, and there's something moving through.
What will happen?
Suspense.
Will...
Will he break up with Evelyn?
Will Dorothy come if so-and-so doesn't want her to come?
What about Mrs. Cash and the fat man?
What's going to happen?
What's going to happen when the fat man dies?
What happens when Charlie runs off her twinkle?
You know, all these things.
You have designated Evelyn a heroine.
When I was in Los Angeles on June 14th, I was going to take the book up to her.
We were going to have copies of the book by August 2nd.
And she died.
Isn't that amazing?
Yes.
And she was wonderful, you know.
She was very candid when she finally...
She accepted me, told me very honestly about her affair with the doctor, and there was only great dignity, intelligence, whose powers were never allowed really to develop.
She was an extremely good writer, very witty.
an admirable woman.
Did Arthur recognize her as a heroine, do you think?
At times.
She is the heroine in your eyes, I think.
Well, in his eyes, too, she would be the heroine.
At the end, it's she that's the only one he can trust.
But it's always alternating, hating and loving her, and not being able to give her up and yet wanting to destroy her.
It's a very—see, this is really, I think,
a work about women.
Think of the number of women that are in there, and the history of the minds and careers of women.
It's a very interesting point, isn't it?
It really is.
Because when you look at his feelings about women, his abuse of them, I mean I think you could use that, you know, that a lot of contemporary women would be
Well, when a woman first reads it, she's in a rage.
She reads everything the male chauvinist did.
And yet, the tributes to women, the interest in women, the way he's fascinated by their experiences, how he's interested in their clothes, how he's interested in maybe always an exploitative way.
But he himself said, no, I want to help them.
But you wonder about his advice, that is to pay no attention to their parents,
Not to go to college.
That kind of thing.
Correct their pronunciation.
Be on their side.
It's almost a community.
Yes.
Maybe.
In some ways, that's right.
But anyway, even if it's from that end, it belongs in the history of women in this country.
I think it's an important document.
Very interesting point, isn't it?
important there is, uh, of significance in this.
Um, unless there's something else that you'd want to add on this, uh, we've covered it pretty well, and maybe we can, sure.
Well, now we're going to switch gears.
Switch hats.
And, uh, and this, this really, I don't truly have a focus on this.
Uh, we, we started
I really want to do a story on the Library of America, on literary classics, on your work, on the influence you bring to me, the direction that you would like to see the program take.
It's an unqualified success, certainly, in the three or so years.
Well, it is an unqualified success in one way, if you say a succès d'esteem.
certainly far more successful than we ever thought we would be when we first started, as far as sales are concerned.
But there are still unsolved questions.
Maybe we should think about how far we've come.
What have we redone since the first period?
grant was given to us by the NEH, which followed the promise of the Ford Foundation.
Until that time, it looked as if we were going to meet a great deal of opposition.
It was clear that there were many interests.
Opposition in what respect?
Opposition from various groups, mainly
the directors of university presses, who had spent a great deal of their time and taxpayers' money, although they don't emphasize that so much as the grants came from the government, but they also put some of their own money into it, to do these scholarly editions of certain American writers.
This had been going on for a long time and with mixed results.
Some of the volumes were very good.
Some were much criticized, but they were very special, and they were primarily designed for scholars.
They were very expensive.
And very expensive.
And not accessible to the general readership, although always, they say, there had been plans to publish in paperback the texts of these books.
But there had been—but that had lagged behind, and because of the system they had of hiring out editors, who then in turn hired assistants, these books were coming back very, very slowly.
But at one general meeting at the NEH, we were assailed by many groups, and if it had not been for very
concerned, interested people who really believed in this project.
It might not have gotten off the ground, but it did.
And we were amazed as well as everybody else by the success of the books, partly because of the idea itself, partly because it seemed to be executed with style,
the beauty of the book, the design, the care that went into it, and that we didn't make any great mistakes.
Yeah, there hasn't been a bomb.
Well, except one misprint, with the Melville title.
Everybody wanted a copy.
Everybody wanted a copy, so you could hardly see that.
And I think it was accepted as an idea
that cut across the intellectual and political spectrum.
That is to say... Let's illumine the idea.
Why don't we just say what the idea is?
The idea of what?
The idea of the Library of America.
The idea of the Library of America was to put into print and keep in print
the principal works of American writers.
Great writers, but not necessarily great writers.
Well, we use the word classics.
Writers of enormous historical importance and literary influence.
But you see, when we talk about the classic, I mean, there are very few great classics.
in world literature.
What is a classic?
A classic is a work which, over the centuries, continues to reach very diverse readers and populations who continue to find something remarkable and rewarding in it.
Over the centuries, our literary heritage is... That's right.
We have not, in other words, we have not produced yet a Dante, a Shakespeare, a Montaigne,
We produced an Emerson, a Melville, a Faulkner, but people would dispute this, you see.
They would begin to see in Melville now, certainly someone like that.
Emerson, probably.
Thoreau, some people would dispute it.
Whitman and Poe, most people would.
But you see, there are national classics.
What American literature needs, and what we have to somehow cull, is something that is comparable to the richly textured literature of older societies.
Look at English 19th century writing.
where you have major writers and you have writers slightly less and slightly less and slightly less.
So there's a rich texture, an undergrowth, and you're constantly discovering rather interesting and curious books.
Not great books, but put together gives a richness to the literary soil.
One of the great achievements, it seems to me, of Van White Brooks, who is now usually sneered at,
The makers and finders really attempted to look around.
He read more widely than any American professor had before, reading the various minor little things, as well as the major things, and giving, covering this rather bare literary landscape.
Yeah.
Sure.
What is this?
This is what I asked you for?
What he did was to give some kind of landscape, increase the literary shrubbery, you might say.
And so that I see the Library of America not only having these great single figures standing out like bare pine trees,
but other kinds of growths you see, which really makes the literature interesting.
Do you see a forest growing?
I see a forest drawing, yes, with great trees and lesser trees and charming shrubs.
Collecting the literature makes us more interesting to ourselves.
It also recovers
species that are likely to become extinct, these books going out of print, so finally nobody hears about them.
Which species do you think were most in danger?
Well, I would say that there were a number of writers who wrote one book and were memorable for that, but who also wrote other things that have been forgotten.
Now, what has happened is partly due to American publishing.
American publishers, there are fewer publishers.
There are fewer bookstores.
Bookstore owners can't afford to keep a lot of books on their shelves.
There are not so many second-hand bookstores as there were.
Publishing houses, often taken over by conglomerates, want to publish popular paperbacks so that you'll have any number of editions of Mark Huckleberry Finn or
portrait of a lady or the rise of silas latin or something you're not american yes but anything like that but then try and get other novels of them you see so you so that's one then there are writers who are just out of print try and find john barleycorn before you people write it out exactly exactly yes but try and find the novels of john w de forrest try to find the novels of uh
George Washington Cable, try to find the novels of Harold Frederick.
Now, those people say, well, those are lesser writers.
And what we were charged, our critics said, if these writers are out of print, they deserve to be out of print.
The very fact that they are not... That's what it is.
If you can't compete in the market, you see.
This is, you could say the same thing about species.
If a tamarind monkey goes out, it's a good thing.
He can't survive in this world.
You don't preserve it.
But the tamarind monkey is a very beautiful monkey.
And there are those people who would say, if the Ethiopian dies— That's it.
And you can use that— Pardon me for saying that, but some people would say that.
Well, this is nature's way of saying— Getting rid of the— They're not populated and exploited their resources.
That's right.
But do we accept that?
Of course we don't.
And I think if we're going to give our children and their children a chance to see what American religion is about,
We were accused of being elitist, of telling them what they should read.
On the contrary, they seem to me are elitist because they rule out these books that don't keep on and limit the number of American writers that posterity is going to be.
Is there an influential they?
I don't know.
I have my own ideas, but I wouldn't want to sustain me about that.
But they are there.
They are there.
I'm not trying to get you to pinpoint, because I don't want you to, but is it somehow related again to the university press people, MLA type?
Not necessarily.
Are we just talking about— We're talking about a certain kind of commercial attitude.
That is that publishing is a business.
We're there to make a profit.
And maybe that's the reason it required a non-profit corporation like ours to undertake this.
Maybe you think that also Americans tend to want things right away, going back.
Classics have endured for centuries.
The Divine Common is, what, 600 years, 600 years, 300 years, whatever.
That's right.
But we want our classics now.
Yes.
And another thing is, you see, I think you understand the classics better if you understand what was being written at the same time.
In one sense, it gives us a healthy qualification.
What seems so novel and unique in a writer can be seen
It's like looking at Mozart's contemporaries or Beethoven's contemporaries.
If you see them, listen to their music in the context of their contemporaries, you understand what is unique, what is special about them, and what isn't.
than just a half dozen plays of Sophocles.
That's right.
And we only have a fraction of their plays.
And if we follow the dictum of the people who are talking about them.
Well, only the best ones survive.
Yes.
They would still say, we have them in libraries.
I understand.
But how many libraries, you see?
We're getting letters from librarians.
all over the tiny little towns all over the country, because of this Mellon plan, you know, of distributing our books.
We have a ton of, well, you know, Massachusetts, I mean, every little town has a little library.
But there are many places where... We're all getting in on this.
Pardon me.
Well, there are many places that aren't near a major library.
Say, in Worcester, you have Magnificent Library, but other places, you don't.
But I think that the fact that these books are coming out are being written about, are being re-seen.
Gore Vidal writes that Howells, you don't associate Howells with Gore Vidal, and yet Howells, Gore Vidal wrote this rather spectacular tribute to Howells.
You have people discovering Francis Parkland.
We never thought of him.
And I'd like to think that coming closer to home, the new Leatherstocking series—now here's Jim Beard, working all these years on this.
Forty years?
Yes, quietly, you know, putting an enormous amount of work in it.
I'd like to think that bringing it out first—because they'll bring it out in their paperback—but bringing it out first this way is going to bring more public attention
To him, who has been one of the leading architects of Cooper studies, but also to make people, yeah, Cooper.
I remember reading Cooper when I was a kid, or I couldn't, you know.
And so that it has a sort of regenerative, synergistic effect, you see.
It's been marvelous.
Determining classics.
If we were not, then I left the back of that.
And that's why people were talking.
Just to warn you, I just wasn't afraid when we were talking.
And I'm always about sitting up and folding with it.
We used to be a trucker, or a shell truck, but mostly they were pulled in a trucker.
and all that down in the world they kept in front of us.
Now it's in Australian football.
Now it's a good day.
Somebody was foolish enough to tell me that it needs to be
You're wrong, aren't you?
Now, I love your cook, and it was a wonderful friend of mine.
I tell all of you that it was a friend of mine who had judged the time and who would have to live the care.
And an unmarried lady who worked very hard in her life and had very good
in Australia.
I didn't sign down for my friend's warranty, but my manager's rather contact in the US in Australia.
It was called Cooking with Colleen Catholic in New York.
And it was wonderful cookbook.
It wouldn't have been very close to me like that because it seems to be incredibly useful to you, which I would like to call the dodged cookbook.
It was full of wonderful recipes about potatoes, butter, and everything.
have reached sources.
But it's also actually quite useful for people because it was written by two scientists, me and G. Lisa, and we found ourselves much more interested in explaining quite a new pattern of topics.
So we explained in very simple, easily understood language, why they're dry, and what makes batting salad work, and things like that.
It did very well, I must say, indeed.
It never took off the ground very much, really.
Some of the ingredients have different boundaries, but some are not plongebous here.
It's mostly it's been said.
Yes.
You made a problem that you've been very talented with you.
Oh, I would often strike that.
You feel like you said, you've been tackling now that you've been talking about something.
You don't have a little problem.
You've got to tackle it.
I'll get that in some way.
But you did it again, and you've been trying to saturate it.
Have you seen that?
I think it would probably not be very popular with Princeton's fundamentalist practice, but I think it would be very popular with Princeton's fundamentalist practice.
When I'm out about writing a few things, I really, except myself.
And luckily for me, I think there will always be a lot of people out there, even though I never got a film based again.
People would like what I'm not, and I think there are a lot of people who don't like free.
The critics don't like me, and they act like me.
I usually get chatted by cookies, particularly the cookies that you didn't have time.
For some, I've reached them.
Probably because I make an awful lot of money.
We don't like rather to make an awful lot of money because, on the whole,
their photographs themselves.
And they're not anything that's clear.
So they're not clear about it, because they're telling some awfully good people.
They've found anybody who's different than anything else.
I'm not trying to say I'm a different worker anymore.
I'm trying to say it's better.
The books are pretty polite.
You should go back last.
Because in the long run, the only people in the world who can be told, whether a book is back last year or not, are the people who buy it from you.
And if people don't buy books,
for any other reason than that, they either want to enjoy more and more about the book.
And luckily, what a priest is saying, how a priest is supposed to the book is not how a reader is supposed to the book.
And I think that's important, and I don't have any advice with you, but I just don't see why people write it if they're pretty different than that.
Do you think there's a good story in the opal gouters
I've had to see a few years ago.
In the days where the only woman who lived in season three was a lesbian lady in this college, Opal.
So she was right around the market today.
And there were five of us girls and we had to have a split test.
because my whole town was just men who didn't teach him and girls in those days.
And it was pretty rough.
Is anybody planning to write this story there?
The Australian Bookseller Association, I think, has a civilian year.
The best people you ask would be Richard Walton, somebody like that, and like Stan.
You probably know a lot more than I do.
I talked with your friends a bit.
I have a question.
What did your religion have?
My religion is that, ma'am.
Very interesting, really.
My family was a church before I was born, mostly because the owner left everything he had in the Catholic Church.
Very aptly, because he's a normal church, don't be doing that.
However, I was educated in Catholic school.
My father was an Irishman from Oxford, a Scottish family.
So I was educated in public school because my mother was convinced that it was the best education.
I think there was a deal she said for that and I think she probably got lost.
And I don't know what Germaine Greer says, which is that everything, her feminism, her attitude to life, is not the product of her mom.
She might have called me several times, but
It's a bond for the nuns who have a proper delivery or demarital stuff like that.
And I know why she said it, because there's no domesticated female.
And they encouraged you, if you were a black child, they encouraged you to throw in your nuns and not to worry too much about...
You know, there's a more orthodox given by getting married and having children.
We were tremendously close to the university in a day and day in Australia.
um it was a good background my family was naturally very forward
So I used to, I went to a highly academic school, so I had to, my husband's childhood, I had all that religion in school, went home for a 28th century family, and I had all that school up into the school, and my husband was doing job stuff.
It's true, that's true.
We can't disagree with it.